# Continued

Each (re)interpretation demonstrates and reinforces the argument that “knowledge can be gained from such diverse approaches as reading a novel to conducting a laboratory experiment” (Anderson Hudson & Ozanne, 1988, p. 508). The three Skylarks has the same content—the lyrics and the tune—and yet each is a completely different lived experience. Each artist has a philosophy of music which shapes their artistic selves and is expressed through their unique interpretations of this and other musical compositions. And, because I own both the Midler and Ronstadt albums (yes, LPs) as well as a Hoagy Carmichael compilation that includes Skylark, I can live into myself by listening to anyone of these interpretations at a different moment of my own living. So, such a moment might allow me to “be song”, as Dorothy Livesay is in Inter Rim, where being in song can be a way of discovering not just what we know but what we want to know and how we want to know it.

Such basic questions (“What do I want to know?” and “How do I want to know it?) are central to interpretive research philosophies and qualitative research methods. In the same way that the singer can “know” something about being human through a song, the interpretive and qualitatively informed scholarly can choose from a variety of methods to know something about the world. By choosing a given form (interview, observation, text analysis) and using that form to explore how people think, feel, and do, the interpretivist is constantly given the opportunity to think more creatively and deeply about a given phenomenon, whether it is why people buy the things they buy, choose to form unions, or be the world.

So, is one interpretation right and the other wrong? Well, if songs (which are poetry in musical motion) are about meaning and emotion, then, by definition, they can never the same twice because each will be uniquely expressive and provide a unique way into to understanding a human experience. And each demonstrates the value of using lyrical (or expressive) language to convey insights about human behaviour.
teams up with Barry Manilow to make this a modern not-quite soft pop ballad in which she reinterprets Carmichael’s classic with a voice and breath that soars up and over notes and out into the big blue yonder—just like a bird. And then, in 1984, Linda Ronstadt allows her Skylark to be a truly lush expression—big strings and her voice husky, deeply coloured with low, chocolatey tones—in honour of her co-creator Nelson Riddle and the “big band” sound. A reinterpretation that brings with it another possibility of living in a musical moment.

Each (re)interpretation demonstrates and reinforces the argument that “knowledge can be gained from such diverse approaches as reading a novel to conducting a laboratory experiment” (Anderson Hudson & Ozanne, 1988, p. 508). The three Skylarks has the same content—the lyrics and the tune—and yet each is a completely different lived experience. Each artist has a philosophy of music which shapes their artistic selves and is expressed through their unique interpretations of this and other musical compositions. And, because I own both the Midler and Ronstadt albums (yes, LPs) as well as a Hoagy Carmichael compilation that includes Skylark, I can live into myself by listening to anyone of these interpretations at a different moment of my own living. So, such a moment might allow me to “be song”, as Dorothy Livesay is in *Inter Rim*, where being in song can be a way of discovering not just what we know but what we want to know and how we want to know it.

Such basic questions (“What do I want to know?” and “How do I want to know it?) are central to interpretive research philosophies and qualitative research methods. In the same way that the singer can “know” something about being human through a song, the interpretive and qualitatively informed scholarly can choose from a variety of methods to know something about the world. By choosing a given form (interview, observation, text analysis) and using that form to explore how people think, feel, and do, the interpretivist is constantly given the opportunity to think more creatively and deeply about a given phenomenon, whether it is why people buy the things they buy, choose to form unions, or be the world.

So, is one interpretation right and the other wrong? Well, if songs (which are poetry in musical motion) are about meaning and emotion, then, by definition, they can never the same twice because each will be uniquely expressive and provide a unique way into to understanding a human experience. And each demonstrates the value of using lyrical (or expressive) language to convey insights about human behaviour.

Reference list

Anderson Hudson, L., & and Ozanne, J.L. (1988). “Alternative ways of seeking knowledge in consumer research.” *Journal of Consumer Research, 14*, 508-521.

Ciardi, J. (1959). *How does a poem mean?* Houghton Mifflin Company.

Deshpande, R. (1983). “Paradigms lost”: On theory and method in research in marketing. *Journal of Marketing, 47*(4), 101–110. https://doi.org/10.1177/002224298304700411
